What is going on guys? It has been over
a year since I posted on this channel,
but I'm back and I'm back and motivated
to talk about managing deliverability in
2026 as that has been a pretty hot
topic. And I'm more motivated because my
good friend Eric has been posting twice
a day and has motivated me to get off my
lazy ass and start recording videos just
like I did a few years back. So, let's
talk about managing deliverability in
2026. So, in our SmartLad account, uh, I
wrote all this out about a month ago. We
had we had about 126,000 email accounts.
We're actually closer to 144,000 email
accounts as of today. And managing all
of that takes a lot of work and there's
a lot of things that we've learned and
processes we've built. So, I kind of
want to go through that. Um, so if
you're interested, sit back, watch, and
let's go through it. So, from an
infrastructure standpoint, I'm a big
believer of always sending from Google
or Microsoft accounts. Anybody that I've
seen doing well with SMTP always comes
back in three months and says this is
not working anymore. It seems like
anytime there's a huge like I would say
like spam filter update of some sort, um
SMTPs fuel the burn more than Google and
Microsoft do and just generally they
perform better and have like way less
variance in results. Um that's how I've
always seen it from SMTP. So whenever
you're buying your accounts, always buy
from providers that are using Google or
Microsoft. And then with the domains,
like the TLD doesn't really matter that
much. Like stick toss when possible.
Like there's, you know, sales that are
on pork bun. You know, you you can gets
for way cheaper during these sales
periods through these domain registars.
So try to get dots, but we also
use.org.info.co
andbiz because they are cheaper. Um, the
thing to keep in mind though is I do
feel like they burn out a little quicker
and and my thought process here is it's
because it does look a little bit more
spammy and so like you may have an
additional person or two that marks it
as fan span should because of that. Uh,
but that's just kind of more of a
thought process less than like you know
I've done the testing and I figured that
out. Uh, with warm-up, we recommend a
minimum of 2 weeks. And, you know, with
running Allegian agencies, clients want
to get campaigns launched as soon as
possible. And so, we're kind of forced
to do a minimum of two weeks. But for a
couple of our clients, we actually
launched probably after like a month and
a half of warm-up. And we saw those
domains perform so much better and
probably last a lot longer as well. But,
you know, for most of you guys, you're
kind of running in a crunch. So, there's
not much to do there. And then a big
thing I'm a believer in is kind of like
a rotation strategy. So for every
client, you want to buy two sets of
infra infra in infrastructure. One that
you use in month one and then the second
one they use in month two. And then you
just rotate A and B. And it's super easy
to do this if you have a subscription
like Hyperype for example. you can use
their bulk uh tag updator to basically
give half of your inboxes group A and
your other half as group B and then you
can assign all the inboxes to a client
and then in smart lead it's really easy
to filter for the client and then for
the tag and then whenever it comes to
like naming conventions of uh campaigns
you could say like you know client name
campaign industry the date that you
launched the campaign and then the group
that it's in. And so then you can kind
of assess like okay like did the
campaign do good because of the industry
or because of deliverability or like if
this is a proven industry with a proven
offer and group B did bad then it's
probably the infra issue. So it gets way
easier to point things out like that and
just like be able to look at an overview
and identify things when you have it set
up like that. Um and then if you're
running a legion agency, I feel like a
lot of you guys watching this probably
run legion agencies. Um, I I highly
recommend just having a ton of
non-branded domains that you just have
in the backup. And and what you can do
here is like if your main info ever goes
down for a client, you can swap in the
emergency domains. And regardless of
what provider you use, uh, we use
hypertide. Other people will use inbox
kit or scaled mail. There's they're all
pretty much all the same in my opinion.
It just comes down to customer support
and pricing. Uh, which is where you
should kind of identify like, you know,
what does better or whatnot. Uh, but all
of them at scale will somehow always
mess up and and like this this is going
to happen regardless, right? They're
going to mess up the
DNS settings here and there, right? And
so, you always just want to make sure
you're on your tippy toes when it comes
to that. And so, I always recommend you
guys sending yourself a test email and
checking the headers before you take any
campaign live. Uh, because that that
stuff is like a automatic, you know,
you're going to go to the spam if you
don't have that set up correctly. So,
uh, that is a one very large thing to do
on the DNS side. So that's that's
everything infrastructure related. Let's
talk about campaign setup. So most of
you guys know this, but do not track
open. Open data is unreliable and it can
hurt your delivery with your format.
Just keep it plain text and very simple.
No fancy formatting. You want it to kind
of look like a natural email so that it
avoids a spam filter. And then for for
timing, um I always recommend
just sending through the the regular
time zones of Monday to Friday, 9 to5.
What we like to do inside of Smartly is
use their API and basically update the
start time and the end time every day on
every campaign and randomize it plus or
30 minutes uh or plus or minus in
between 30 minutes of the original
launch time that we had. Super easy
automation you could set up. And we do
find that Saturdays are a good day to
perform specifically when you're hitting
like SMBs or midmarket. So that's
something that you might want to
consider. And then even on holidays,
like people turn off their campaigns. I
recommend you keep it on. Like most of
our clients are targeting SMBs or
mid-market. And like you know, I'm
technically a small business owner. I
check my emails every single day, every
morning. That's like my first thing I
do, check my emails. That's how it is
with most business owners. And so you
shouldn't feel like you can't email them
on a Saturday or a holiday. And you
know, you could say, "Oh, that's
unprofessional, whatever." But it works.
Like some of the holidays is some of the
days we generate the most leads for
clients. And so would highly recommend
that. And then when it comes to the the
lead list, couple things that I've
noticed. One is you need to make sure
that you format the company names
properly. And ideally, you just don't
use the company name at all. I find that
whenever we have company name or title
name inside of the campaign, we tend to
find that it does worse. But like if you
are going to use it, make sure that it's
formatted properly. And like same thing
with the titles, like you have to use AI
to basically format it to be more uh
normalized. So what I mean by that is
like you're not going to ever go up to
someone and say, "Hey, I noticed you
you're the chief executive officer."
You're always going to say, "I noticed
that you were the CEO." Right? And so
you have to catch those nuances. And
like that's an easy example, but there's
some titles that are pretty lengthy that
AI sometimes can't normalize and like
you wouldn't go there and call them
like, "Hey, I saw that you know you're
the director of intelligence." Um, and
then whatever, right? Like bad example,
but you get my point. And then the other
thing too is I would recommend that you
just remove all email sec people on your
lead list that have email security,
right? So you could use Google's three
DNS endpoint to identify anybody that
has like Proof Point, Barracuda, Mcast,
any of those SCGs on your leave list,
and I would just remove them. And if
that makes your leave list super small,
I recommend that you just put them at
the end of your lead list. And a good
way to do this is through a free tool
that actually Omare dropped um last week
on his website. It's
hyperlist.hypertai.io,
I think, something like that. go to his
LinkedIn, you'll find it and that'll
help you sort the list at the bottom.
And then um when it comes to ISPs as
well, a good thing I've noticed as well
is when people isolate ISPs, you usually
find that your domain gets flagged way
quicker. So like if you remove all the
Outlooks, you remove all the SMTPs and
anyone else on your lead list and you
just hammer Google. And let's say you're
not using a ton of domains, you're not
using a ton of spin tax, your domain
will absolutely get flagged and every
email you send to Google will get
rejected. And so I do not recommend just
isolating one provider and then and then
doing nothing else. Um, and that happens
when you send like a lot of volume and
like your sequencer is kind of sending a
majority of its volume in short blasts.
That's whenever that happens. So that's
something to kind of keep in mind as
well. And then make sure you validate
your email list with any one of the
email validation tools. There's a
million of them out there. We use
million verifier. I love their API. We
don't find that it has errors as often
as some of the others. And yeah, like I
I would always validate regardless if my
because like if you look at any data
provider, they all tell you, you know,
emails are 90% valid or 95% valid. And
and I never believe that. You always
want to validate right before you launch
the campaign. And that's a good practice
to always have. And if you're going to
validate your catch alls, you know, use
scrubby, use bounce band. It doesn't
matter which one you use, but catch alls
typically will always have a higher
bounce rate. And so what I recommend you
doing is separating your campaigns. You
should have one for your bow emails and
then one for your valid catcholes. And
you can moderate easier and turn off a
campaign because with catchpholes, it's
really hard to validate the the way that
SMTPs are validated. And so you're going
to find yourself having a lot of false
positives. And so it's easier to just be
able to see two campaigns. One is having
a massive bounce rate. It's the cashall
one. Let me go pause that campaign and
not start sending to the rest of the
cash on there so that I don't wreck my
deliverability. That's something that I
recommend you doing on the leadless
level. Now with copyright, um the big
things I would recommend is spin tax
everything. But the the key here is you
need to review all the different
variants and read it out yourself. Like,
and a lot of people don't do that. They
just use AI to spin tax it and then they
just kind of let it run. But here's the
thing, AI will mess up. It will come up
with some variants that just don't sound
normal at all. And that will kill your
performance, not the deliverability,
like it having the weird spin tax
errors. And so, just make sure you
review the spin tax um with your copy.
Make sure you keep it simple. no images,
PDFs, or links in the first email. I've
never seen that work consistently. Like,
you may be able to run a few campaigns
and have a better reply rate in the
short term, but if you're trying to
manage deliverability at scale, it's not
worth it. But if you're like, yo, like
if it gets me better results and I can,
you know, allocate a bigger budget to
infra and just be okay with it
constantly burning out, then that's the
game you play. And that's totally okay.
Uh, and it may work, right? And then
with cold emails, like I read so many
cold emails and I think to myself, why
would you say this? Right? Like it needs
to pass the test of one, can a
10-year-old read this and know exactly
what you're selling? And then two, it
needs to be something that you would
actually say to someone else in person.
Like we have customers that sell
solutions where it's like
like you make this sound like something
super complicated and crazy when it's
not that. app. Like we had a customer
that literally will pull put like a like
it's kind of like a a Google or a search
bar at the bottom of your websites and
um it allows you to like like basically
the the offer here is like you know B2B
buyers will come to uh your website and
just scan if they can't find your
information they will just dip off your
site. But like if you have a search
board they can just ask the question and
find the the relevant answer. So, kind
of a cool value prop. And the copy that
they wanted us to run was like talking
about like conversion rates and talking
about like, you know, uh how it helps
with AI SEO and all this like craziness.
And they had some technical terms in
there. And I was like, dude, you
literally need to just say, "Hey, look,
I find that a lot of B2B buyers are
bouncing off of sites because they scan
it and can't find the answers to their
questions quickly. We could add a search
bar at the bottom of your page that's
accessible and it drives up conversions
because it leads them right to the
answer that they're looking for. Is that
something you'd be interested in? Like,
you know, it's it's that simple. You
just have to make it conversational. Um,
and then when it comes to
personalization,
I I'm a huge believer in personalization
can help a weak offer slightly perform
better, but it still will be the reason
that your campaign scales. And so people
overobsess on personalization. But if
you had two options, having a 10 out of
10 personalized campaign or a campaign
with no personalization, but a great
offer, the great offer will always
outperform the personalization. So
instead of trying to figure out the
10step clay workflow to create the best
personalization in the world, figure out
how to make your offer better. and and
when you have a better offer and you
start to get more replies to your
campaign, your deliverability is much
easier to manage than the guy that gets
zero responses to his campaign. So
that's everything I would keep in mind
for for uh copyrightiting. And now when
it comes to actually measuring
deliverability, um everyone has like
their own tips and points to it. I you
know this is what we have started we've
started doing in Q4 that has made our
lives a lot easier. Um, it's so much
easier to do now today than ever before.
Slight mostly because of of three
reasons. One, hikerite has really good
APIs that we're able to use that allow
us to build a lot of the dashboards that
we want. Smartle has a lot of APIs that
we're able to use that help us also to
build really cool dashboards. And then
Lovable has made it to where we can
build dashboards really quickly. So, I
would say it's it's a contribution to
those three tools. And what we do is
we're trying to assess the domain reply
rate comparative to the client's offer.
And so let me explain that and and my
thought process behind it. Like I could
say that I want all my clients to get a
3% reply rate because that's the average
we're getting for the month or whatever
it is, right? But sometimes it's
impossible to get a client to get to
there because of who they're selling to
and the the offer that they have. And so
it's unfair to think that there's a
deliverability issue on these domains
when in reality it's more of an offer
and market issue. And so like we have
clients that are getting great results
and they have a 1% reply rate. But but
since they're not hitting that 3% reply
rate that we have as an agency average,
like we think to ourselves that there's
a deliverability issue when there isn't.
And so I think it's so much smarter and
better to compare the individual domain
reply rate to the overall average that
the client is gay. And so you can kind
of see that in the screenshot right
here. Let me zoom in real quick for you
guys.
You'll see right here, we basically have
all of the domains and the reply rates.
And this is the client's overall average
reply rate. And we're looking at each
individual domain's reply rate and
seeing what percentage different is the
domain comparative to the average. And
if we see that a domain is doing 57% or
worse or really like our rule is 40% or
worse than the client average and is
sent sufficient volume then we will mark
it as questionable and then usually
delete it and reorder it. So that's kind
of how we think about deliverability um
and and assessing deliverability. Um and
and that's the key of it. Uh,
and then I would say the other piece
that is really useful because of
hypertide is like how we're able to
manage or replace domains better. And I
really had this in my doc because I made
the doc a month ago. So I'm stealing
Omar's LinkedIn post. So this isn't the
most I would say best YouTube video or
anything by any means, but it gets the
job done. Anyways, basically what we do
is use hypertide relay. So, what they've
built is a way for you to delete your
domain, but then still be able to get
all the replies that come to this domain
to a preset inbox that you have. And so,
let me kind of explain where this is
really good. And and it kind of goes in
tangent with uh another one of their
solutions, which is
I got pause real quick.
I believe they call it hypertide
layover. So, basically like let's say we
have a campaign, right? and it's doing
40% worse uh on a domain level. On that
domain, we can actually cancel it. And
what they do is they give you an 18-day
grace period. So even though I delete it
today, it's not going to delete or it's
not going to be removed until day 18.
And so I can still be sending from that
inbox for the next 18 days. And what's
good about that is that we don't have
clients that have lower volume because
their infra is, you know, completely
gone and deleted. And what we can do is
set up new infra on day one. Use the
layover to cancel the domain. So it gets
removed from our billing, but it's still
active and sending. And then when we
cancel it, we can set up the relay,
which is now going to say, okay, on day
18, when this inbox actually gets
deleted, and you know, I've been sending
from day one all the way to day 18, all
the people that reply to your inbox from
that day 18 is going to get forwarded to
your new inbox that you set up. And like
that's beautiful. That's amazing. So now
we have like kind of like a
self-evolving deliverability management
system to make sure that we never run
into issues at scale. And that's all you
really have to do to manage
deliverability in 2026. People will tell
you that there's some crazy new hack or
crazy new strategy or something that you
need to be on the watch for, but this is
it. And this is just like relentless
execution of the fundamentals. And so
that's that. But it wouldn't be me if I
didn't pitch Lee. So, you know, if you
guys need help with Legion, feel free to
book a call with us at le.io
and we will help you out. But that's it.